And this video I'm going to talk about various kinds of type conversion in Souchong we have implicit
type conversion explicit type conversion which is also called casting and we also have conversion between
non-compatible types.
Here is an example of implicit type conversion.
A bite as you know takes only one bite of memory and an integer takes four bytes.
So we can easily copy a byte to an integer.
What happens at runtime is let's take a look at this slide.
So here is the binary representation of our b variable here.
So one is represented as seven bits of 0 and 1 bit of one.
When we copy a by to an integer what the runtime does is it prefixes that value with a bunch of zeros
to fill the four bytes.
So there is no data loss.
In situations like that when the compiler is 100 percent sure that the types are compatible and no data
loss will happen.
Values can be converted to a different type implicitly.
Here's another example of implicit type conversion.
So we have an integer set to 1 and we copy that to a float.
Again in this example no data loss will happen.
Well let's take a look at this one.
Here we have declared an integer and we are trying to copy that to a byte and integer is four bytes
.
So when we convert that to a byte three bytes out of four bytes will be gone and there is a chance for
data loss.
Now data lost doesn't always happen.
It only happens if the value will be stored in the integer is beyond the capacity of a byte.
In this example one can be stored in a byte so no data loss will happen.
But if we had let's say 300 here we cannot store 300 in a byte.
So as a result of that conversion they told we lost when the compiler knows that there is a chance for
data loss.
It doesn't allow implicit type conversion and you need to explicitly tell the compiler that you're aware
of the data loss and you still want to go ahead with the conversion.
In situations like that what we do is we prefix that variable with the target type.
So here I'm trying to convert I to a byte.
This is what we call as casting.
Here's another example.
So we have a float set to 1.0.
And if we try to convert that to an integer the compiler would complain.
I was sure that later in the coding demo.
So we need to tell the compiler that we are aware of the data loss and we still want to convert F which
is a float to an integer.
So we cast it like here.
Sometimes we are working with types that are not compatible but you still need to convert them.
For example we might have a number represented as a string as you see here and we need to convert it
to an integer.
In situations like that because string and end are not compatible you cannot use explicit casting.
So we need a different mechanism for converting a string to a number.
In situations like that we need to use the convert class or use the Parse method to convert classes
part of data framework and it's defined in the system namespace.
It has a bunch of methods for converting various types to other types and they all start with two.
In this case we're trying to convert as much as a string to an int 32 and 32.
As you know is a dot Net Framework type which maps to a C-sharp integer type.
Remember a byte is one byte as short is two bytes and integer is four byte long is eight bytes.
You probably know that each byte has eight bits.
So an integer which has 4 bytes times eight beats ends up being 32 bits.
That's why it's called two in 32 and in 16 which represents 16 bits equals two short which is two bytes
.
We also have this parse method here all the primitive types that I explained in the last lecture like
integer long float boolean.
They all have this parse method and the Parse method takes a string and tries to convert that to the
target type.
In this case an integer.
Here are some of the methods that you can find in the convert class to byte which converts the given
value to a byte to in 16 to convert the given value to a short to in 32 to convert the given value to
an integer and 2 in 64 to convert the given value too long.
OK enough theory.
Let's jump into code and see all this concept in action.